---
title: Playing Games with Yourself
date: 2020-12-19
---

# Playing Games with Yourself

I often get reminded of a passage from *Godel, Escher, Bach* whenever I get into discussions about politics.
The passage is a conversation between two animals that disagree. One keeps proposing further and further proofs
of their point of view. The other accepts all of the evidence the other presents but blithely disagrees that
the one's argument is true and that the point is correct.

The author goes on to explain that for any proof one individual may consider sufficient, another can just as
easily and just as logically consider it to be insufficient or unrelated.

Basically, I can say, "Let's say if A then B. A is true, therefore B, correct?"

Someone else could say, "Correct."

"So since A is true, therefore B, right?"

The other can simply shake their head. "No, not at all."

Both of us could continue to talk, but if the point of disagreement is the premise of our perspective, then
no matter how long we talk for, we'll remain in disagreement.

Because of that, no matter how well-intentioned both of two individuals may be when discussing politics, they
might end up feeling that the other isn't listening to their well though-out reasons, almost like the person's
intentionally deaf. The person isn't deaf; the person simply has a different starting point-of-view.

The only conversation that can be guaranteed to be productive is a conversation where both participants sit down
and etch out where they're coming from. They would need to cover the basic assumptions that they have about the
world around them, the beliefs they have about others' motivations, and the body of evidence that they've used to
produce their current perspective. 

Otherwise, any conversation can't be guaranteed to be productive, and in the vast majority of cases talking to a
brick wall would be about as productive. If 
